---
layout: post
title: 'Memento'
by: Christopher Nolan
date: '2022-05-25T08:06:00.000+02:00'
categories: [ tv ]
image: images/2022/memento.webp
---

I met Sammy through work. Insurance. I was an investigator. I'd investigate the claims to see which ones were phony. I had to see through people's bullshit. It was useful experience, because now it's my life. When I meet someone, I don't know if I've met them before. I have to just look in their eyes and try and figure them out. Sammy was my first real challenge.

(...) the guy's a 58 year old, semiretired accountant. He and his wife had been in this car accident, nothing serious. But he's acting funny, he can't get a handle on what's going on. The doctors find some possible damage to the hippocampus, nothing conclusive. Sammy can't remember anything for more than a couple of minutes. Can't work, can't do shit. The medical bills pile up, his wife calls the insurance company and I get sent in. Now, this is my first big claims investigation so I really check into it. Sammy can think just fine but he can't make new memories. He can only remember things for a couple of minutes. (...) The crazy part was that this guy who couldn't follow the plot of Green Acres anymore could do the most complicated things, as long as he learned them before the accident, and as long as he kept his mind on what he was doing. Now the doctors assure me that there's a real condition called anterial-grade memory loss, or short-term memory loss. It's rare but legit. But every time I see him I catch this look, this slight look of recognition. But he says he can't remember me at all. Now, I can read people and I'm thinking "bad actor". So now I'm suspicious and I order more tests.

(...) They kept testing Sammy for months. All the previous cases responded to conditioning. Sammy didn't respond at all. It was enough to suggest that his condition was psychological, not physical. We turned down his claim on the grounds that he wasn't covered for mental illness. His wife got stuck with the bills and I got a big promotion.

(...) She came to see me at my office. I thought she was just trying to catch me off guard so I didn't tell her what I really thought, but I never said that he was faking. Just that his condition was mental, not physical. I found out later that she went home and gave Sammy his final exam. She really thought she'd call his bluff. Or she just didn't want to live with the things she'd put him through. She went into a coma and never recovered. Sammy couldn't understand or explain what happened. He's been in a home ever since. He doesn't even know that his wife is dead. I was wrong about Sammy. When I looked into his eyes, I thought I saw recognition.

Now I know. You fake it. If you think you're supposed to recognize somebody, you just pretend to. You bluff it to get a pat on the head from the doctors. <b>You bluff it to seem less of a freak.</b>

<hr>

I don't even know how long she's been gone. It's like I've woken up in bed and she's not here... because she's gone to the bathroom or something. But somehow, I know she's never gonna come back to bed. If I could just reach over and touch her side of the bed, I would know that it was cold, but I can't. I know I can't have her back... but I don't want to wake up in the morning, thinking she's still here. I lie here not knowing how long I've been alone. So how can I heal? How am I supposed to heal if I can't feel time?

<hr>

Probably tried this before. Probably burned truck loads of your stuff before. Can't remember to forget you.
